{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Chicago Dynasty Football\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 League Rules\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Overview:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Chicago Dynasty Football (CDF) is a 12-team fantasy football dynasty league, with 40 man rosters where most players are kept year to year, individual defensive players, annual rookie drafts, and free agent auctions.\u160?CDF is a year-round league, with three distinct phases: Preseason, In-Season, and Offseason.\u160?The inaugural season (2009) will follow different rules than subsequent seasons, please see Inaugural Season section.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b In Season:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab There will be 12 teams separated into two 6-team divisions.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Each team plays everyone in its division twice (5 teams x2 = 10 games), and half of the teams in the other division once (3 teams x1 = 3 games), for a total of 13 regular season games from NFL Week 1-Week 13.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The CDF playoffs are from NFL Week 14-Week 16.\u160? The first round is during NFL Week 14, with the second best team in each division playing the third best team.\u160? The best team in each division has a bye week in the first round.\u160? Seeding is determined by record, with total points as a tiebreaker.\u160? The winners of the first round games will play the respective first seeds in the division championships (second round) in NFL Week 15.\u160? The two division championship winners will face off in the CDF Super Bowl in NFL Week 16.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Each team will start 1 QB, 2 RB, 3 WR, 1 flex (RB/WR/TE), 1 TE, 1 K, 1 DEF, 2 DL, 3 LB, 2 DB, 1 DL/DB, for a total of 18 starters.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Position designations are based on the hosting site (e.g- Yahoo or MyFantasyLeague), and will not be changed.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Scoring:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Decimal and negative scoring are allowed.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab All players are eligible to receive points for individual statistics (all stats other than team defense stats), regardless of position designation, if the hosting site scoring system allows.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Offense:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 point/25 passing yards (including negative points for negative yards)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 point/10 rushing yards (including negative points for negative yards)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 point/10 receiving yards (including negative points for negative yards)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 point/30 kickoff return yards (including negative points for negative yards)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 point/30 punt return yards (including negative points for negative yards)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab .5 points/reception\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 4 points/passing TD\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 6 points/rushing TD\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 6 points/receiving TD\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 6 points/punt return TD\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 6 points/kickoff return TD\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 2 points/2-point conversion (pass, rush, or receive)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab -2 points/fumble lost\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab -1 point/interception\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Kicking:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 3 points/1-39 yard FG\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 4 points/40-49 yard FG\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 5 points/50+ yard FG\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 point/extra point\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab -1 point/missed extra point\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab -1 point/missed 1-29 yard FG\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Team defense:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 10 points/defense allows 0 points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 7 points/defense allows 1-6 points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 5 points/defense allows 7-13 points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 2 points/defense allows 14-20 points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab -2 points/defense allows 28-34 points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab -4 points/defense allows 35+ points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 6 points/defensive or special teams touchdown\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 point/defensive sack\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 2 points/defensive interception\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 2 points/defensive fumble recovered\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 2 points/defensive safety\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Individual Defensive Players:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 point/solo tackle\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab .5 points/assisted tackle\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 3 points/sack (half sacks are credited 1.5 points)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 1 point/pass defensed\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 3 points/forced fumble\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 3 points/fumble recovery\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 4 points/interception\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 2 points/blocked kick (FG/XP) or punt\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 2 points/safety\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 6 points/touchdown\sa180\sa180\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Free Agency Auctions:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Free agents (FA) are acquired via open auction, in three Free Agency phases: Offseason Free Agency, Preseason Free Agency, and In-Season Free Agency.\u160? The below rules apply to each of the three Free Agency phases, with each phase also having its unique rules.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab There are 70 FA dollars (FA){\i p}{\i e}{\i r}{\i y}{\i e}{\i a}{\i r}{\i a}{\i l}{\i l}{\i o}{\i c}{\i a}{\i t}{\i e}{\i d}{\i t}{\i o}{\i e}{\i a}{\i c}{\i h}{\i t}{\i e}{\i a}{\i m}.\u8198?{\i E}{\i a}{\i c}{\i h}{\i t}{\i e}{\i a}{\i m}{\i r}{\i e}{\i c}{\i e}{\i i}{\i v}{\i e}{\i s}30{\i F}{\i A} after the NFL season is over for Offseason Free Agency, 20 FA$ after the rookie draft for Preseason Free Agency, and 20 FA$ right before the season begins for In-Season Free Agency.\u160? FA dollars do not have to be used in the Free Agency phase they are received, and any amount of FA$ can be used in any phase.\u160? FA dollars can be traded in any quantity.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Each team may carryover a maximum of 75 FA$ from one phase to the next (Offseason to Preseason, Preseason to In-Season, In Season to Offseason).\u160? At the start of any phase, each team may have a maximum of 75 FA$, before the FA dollars for that phase are received.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Free agents are bid on in an open auction format, with a minimum starting bid of $1.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The minimum bid increment is $1 when the current bid is less than $5; once the current bid reaches $5 or higher, the minimum bid increment is $2.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Any bid must be possible within the owner\u8217's FA$ budget, in that the sum of outstanding winning bids + bid that is made must not exceed the owner\u8217's FA$ total.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The owner that wins an FA auction has the player added to his roster, and must have a legal roster (within the current roster limits) after the player is added, with an accompanying legal drop if necessary.\u160? An owner cannot add a player, and then drop the player immediately, if the addition would cause the owner to go over the roster limit.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab There is no limit to the number of active bids, winning bids, or players won by an owner, as long as they are within the constraints outlined previously.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The FA auction winner has the winning amount deducted from his FA$ budget.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Once a player is acquired through auction, the auction price is no longer associated with the player in any way.\u160? If he is traded, the owner acquiring him does not have to pay the auction price, and if he is dropped and bid on again, the minimum starting bid is still $1.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Bids will be made through Google Groups.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Bid timing is based off of the time the email was received in the Google Group.\u160? If there is any reasonable doubt about whether the bid was on time, the bid is null and void.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab FA$ balances will be tracked and updated through a Google spreadsheet.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The exact start and deadline dates for all Free Agency phases will be set during the season.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Offseason Free Agency:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab All teams must make roster cuts to the offseason roster limit of 30 players.\u160? The deadline for making these cuts will be approximately a month after the NFL Super Bowl.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Each team can designate up to 2 Restricted Free Agents (RFA) and 8 Unrestricted Free Agents (UFA).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab There are about four weeks of Free Agent auctions, during late-March to mid-April.\u160? During this time, roster limits expand to 46 players.\u160? Any NFL players are eligible to be bid on (players on NFL rosters, or that have previously played in the NFL \u8211- amateur players are not eligible), not just players designated as UFA or RFA.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab For Restricted Free Agents, the original owner cannot participate in the auction.\u160? However, after the auction is over, the original owner has 72 hours to declare that he is keeping the player for the final bid (must spend that amount in FA).\u8198?{\i I}{\i f}{\i h}{\i e}{\i d}{\i e}{\i c}{\i l}{\i i}{\i n}{\i e}{\i s}{\i t}{\i o}{\i d}{\i o}{\i s}{\i o},\u8198?{\i t}{\i h}{\i e}{\i w}{\i i}{\i n}{\i n}{\i i}{\i n}{\i g}{\i b}{\i i}{\i d}{\i d}{\i e}{\i r}{\i w}{\i i}{\i l}{\i l}{\i w}{\i i}{\i n}{\i t}{\i h}{\i a}{\i t}{\i p}{\i l}{\i a}{\i y}{\i e}{\i r},\u8198?{\i a}{\i n}{\i d}{\i t}{\i h}{\i e}{\i o}{\i r}{\i i}{\i g}{\i i}{\i n}{\i a}{\i l}{\i o}{\i w}{\i n}{\i e}{\i r}{\i w}{\i i}{\i l}{\i l}{\i g}{\i e}{\i t}{\i h}{\i a}{\i l}{\i f}{\i o}{\i f}{\i t}{\i h}{\i e}{\i f}{\i i}{\i n}{\i a}{\i l}{\i F}{\i A} bid (rounded down) added to his FA dollar budget, after the conclusion of Offseason Free Agency.\u160? The winning bidder is allowed to raise his final bid within 24 hours of winning the player, to deter the original owner from re-signing the player.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab While the RFA process is ongoing, the winning owner\u8217's FA$ are considered to be part of a winning bid (and may not be spent on other auctions or in trades) until the RFA auction is resolved.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Any RFAs that are not bid on in Offseason Free Agency may be retained by the original owner at no cost.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab For Unrestricted Free Agents, the original owner can bid on these players along with other owners.\u160? There is no advantage given to the original owner.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab An auction is active for the 48 hours following the most recent bid.\u160? After 48 hours have elapsed since the most recent bid, the player is won by the owner with the last bid, for the amount that was bid.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab There will only be an opening bid deadline for Offseason Free Agency.\u160? After that deadline is passed, no more auctions may be opened.\u160? All active auctions will continue until there has not been a bid in the auction for the last 48 hours.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab After the conclusion of all Offseason auctions, RFA FA$ are added to each owner\u8217's FA$ balance.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rookie Draft:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The yearly rookie draft will take place during May and early June.\u160? Only rookies may be drafted; other non-rookie players can be acquired via auctions during Preseason Free Agency.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Rookies picked in the NFL Supplemental Draft in July are treated as regular free agents and may be added in preseason free agency, as the NFL Supplemental Draft will normally occur after the CDF rookie draft.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Draft order for nonplayoff teams will be determined using a lottery system, with worse teams having a higher chance of getting the top pick.\u160? The first 6 picks of each round will be the nonplayoff teams from the previous season, the last 6 picks of each round will be the playoff teams from the previous season.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The reverse Week 10 standings (standings after Week 10) from the previous season for nonplayoff teams will be used for the rookie lottery.\u160? The rookie lottery will be conducted before the Offseason begins, during early February.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The last 6 picks of each round will be reverse order of playoff finish, with ties (teams eliminated in the same round) broken by regular season finish (record first, then total points).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The draft order will be the same first to last order each round; it will not be a serpentine format.\u160? The owner that picks first in the first round will do the same for the second round and all remaining rounds.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The draft will be 6 rounds.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Each owner will have 24 hours to make his selection.\u160? If it is unlikely that you will be able to make your selection during this timeframe, please send a proxy pick (your top several selections) to another owner that will be around when your pick comes up.\u160? An alternative is having one of the other owners call you when your pick is up, and making a proxy pick at that time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab If a pick is not made within the 24 hour deadline, the pick will be forfeited, and cannot be made after the next owner has picked.\u160? This rule will be exercised at the commissioner\u8217's discretion; first round picks especially will not be passed unless there is a long delay and no response from multiple attempts to contact an owner.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab An owner may pass if he does not want to make his pick.\u160? Once a pick has been passed, it is forfeited. -There will not be a rookie draft during the inaugural season (2009).\u160? All rookies are eligible to be drafted in the Inaugural Draft.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab All teams must adhere to the 46 player preseason roster limit.\u160? Any pick or any other acquisition must result in a legal roster; if the pick causes the team to go over the 46 player limit, an accompanying legal drop must be made.\u160? An owner cannot make a pick, and then drop the pick immediately, if that pick would cause the owner to go over the roster limit..\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The rookie draft will be done over the Google Group, and tracked on a Google Spreadsheet.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Preseason Free Agency:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Preseason Free Agency takes place during the NFL training camp and preseason (August).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Any non-amateur players may be bid on, including rookies.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab An auction is active for the 48 hours following the most recent bid.\u160? After 48 hours have elapsed since the most recent bid, the player is won by the owner with the last bid, for the amount that was bid.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The deadline for opening bids will be set at the beginning of the Preseason Free Agency period.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab There will only be an opening bid deadline for Preseason Free Agency.\u160? After that deadline is passed, no more auctions may be opened.\u160? All active auctions will continue until there has not been a bid in the auction for the last 48 hours.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab After the conclusion of Preseason Free Agency (approximately one week before the NFL regular season begins), all teams must cut down to the 40 player in-season roster limit.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b In-Season Free Agency:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Starting at Sunday kickoff (12 PM CST), any NFL player not already on a roster can be bid on.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Only NFL players are eligible to be bid on (players on NFL rosters or that have previously played in the NFL \u8211- amateur players are not eligible).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Players dropped in the current week by any team, may not be bid on until the next week of free agency.\u160? For example, if an owner adds Matt Forte in free agency and drops Jay Cutler to open up the roster space, Jay Cutler may not be bid on as a free agent until the next week of free agency.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab There are two deadlines each week, the opening bid deadline, and all bid deadline.\u160? The opening bid deadline is the last time an owner can open an auction on a free agent (any free agent that hasn\u8217't been bid on yet).\u160? The all bid deadline is the last time an owner can bid on any currently open auction (any free agent for who an auction has already been opened).\u160? These deadlines depend on the date of the first game of the NFL week:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab weeks with games starting Thursday night:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Tuesday 11:59 PM CST opening bids\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Wednesday 8:00 PM CST all bids\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab weeks with games starting Sunday noon:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Thursday 11:59 PM CST opening bids\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Saturday 12:00 PM CST all bids\sa180\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab If a player is bid on within the last hour before the all bid deadline (Wednesday 7:00 PM-8:00 PM CST on weeks with games starting Thursday night, Saturday 11:00 PM-12:00 PM CST on weeks with games starting Sunday noon), the bid deadline is extended 30 minutes.\u160? If there is a bid within the 30 minute extension, the bid deadline is extended another 30 minutes, until there are no bids within the last 30 minutes. -Any open auction that has not been bid on in the last 24 hours is won by the last owner who made a bid for that auction.\u160? This is the \u8220"anti-sniping\u8221" rule.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Bidding example (for a week with games starting Thursday night, all times are CST):\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Joe open bids on Matt Forte for $1 on Monday at 6:00 PM (if no bids on Forte by Tuesday 6:00 PM, Joe wins Forte for $1).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Mike bids on Matt Forte for $2 on Tuesday at 2:00 PM.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Joe bids on Matt Forte for $3 on Wednesday at 10:52 AM.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Mike bids on Matt Forte for $4 on Wednesday at 7:15 PM.\u160? Since the bid is within the last hour of bidding, the bid deadline is extended 30 minutes to 8:30 PM.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Joe bids on Matt Forte for $5 on Wednesday at 7:48 PM.\u160? The bid deadline is still 8:30 PM.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Mike bids on Matt Forte for $7 (since the bid has reached $5, the minimum bid increment is now $2) on Wednesday at 8:17 PM.\u160? Since the bid is within the 30 minute extension, the bid deadline is extended another 30 minutes, to 9:00 PM.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Joe bids on Matt Forte for $9 on Wednesday at 8:28 PM.\u160? The bid deadline is still 9:00 PM.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab No more bids by 9:00 PM.\u160? Joe wins Matt Forte for $9.\sa180\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Roster Limits:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The in-season roster limit is 40 players.\u160? This is the period from the end of preseason (late August), to the start of the offseason (early March).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The offseason roster limit is 30 players until Offseason Free Agency begins.\u160? This is the period from when RFAs and UFAs are designated (early March) until Offseason Free Agency auctions begin (late March).\u160? After Offseason Free Agency auctions begin, the roster limit goes up to 46 players.\u160? This 46 player limit continues through the rookie draft (May-early June) and Preseason Free Agency (late July-mid August).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab After the conclusion of the preseason (late August), right before the season begins, the rosters go back down to the 40 player in-season limit.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Trading:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Players, FA$ (in any quantity, but must be currently owned, cannot be FA$ received in the future), and picks (from the two upcoming or current rookie drafts) are the only assets that may be traded.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Trades are allowed at any time during the season, except during the CDF playoffs (NFL Weeks 14-16).\u160? The In-Season trade deadline is right before rosters lock for the CDF playoffs (NFL Week 14).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Trades must be announced over the Google group, with a confirmation by the other owner(s) involved.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Incentive clauses, players to be named later, temporary trades, multi-part trades (one part of the trade executed at a later time than another part of the trade), and agreements (not bidding on a certain player, benching starters against someone) are not allowed.\u160? Multi-party trades are allowed (trades involving more than one team).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The rules for adding a player via trade are the same as adding a player via FA auction.\u160? The owner must have a legal roster (within the current roster limits) after the player is added, with an accompanying legal drop if necessary.\u160? An owner cannot add a player, and then drop the player immediately, if the addition would cause the owner to go over the current roster limit.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Draft picks may be traded for the next two upcoming or current rookie drafts.\u160? Examples:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Before and during the 2010 rookie draft, only picks from 2010 and 2011 may be traded.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab After the conclusion of the 2010 rookie draft, only picks from 2011 and 2012 may be traded.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Collusion is not allowed.\u160? Since this is a dynasty league with a lot of future considerations involved in trades, evaluating trade equality is not as simple as in a redraft league.\u160? There will be no league voting for approving or vetoing trades; any trade veto is at the discretion of the commissioner.\u160? Since everyone in this league is a personal friend of at least one other person in this league, there is a trust that everyone will compete with their team\u8217's best interests in mind.\u160? There will generally be no trade restrictions other than what is listed above, but if there is a repeat offender as far as lopsided looking trades, that owner\u8217's membership in the league will be evaluated at the end of the season (or in-season, if the trades are disrupting the competitive balance of the league).\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Administrative:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab CDF will use a Google Group for all league communication.\u160? This group will be created when the league starts and all owners must be subscribed to the group.\u160? Draft picks, trades, auction bids, and other league announcements will be made through the group.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The website we use to run the league will be voted on and determined before the start of the inaugural season.\u160? We may use a different site from year to year.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab CDF is a free league; there is no entry fee or prize pool involved.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab In the event of a 2011 NFL lockout, where there is no NFL season or mostly replacement players are used, there will be no 2011 CDF season, with all 2011 events (rookie draft, IDP expansion, free agency, etc) postponed to 2012, and the 2012 rookie draft postponed to 2013.\u160? All future rookie draft picks will remain intact, and all trades of future rookie draft picks will continue to be valid.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rules Changes:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Prior to the Inaugural Draft, the league rules will be discussed and changes possibly voted on based on the majority league opinion.\u160? Once the final rules are decided on, the Inaugural Draft will begin.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab There may be future rules changes after we all get the hang of dynasty play.\u160? These rules changes will be discussed and voted on at the beginning of the Offseason phase, shortly after the CDF Super Bowl.\u160? Possible future rules changes that may come up include roster limits, auction rules, scoring, division re-seeding, and league expansion.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab It is at the commissioner\u8217's discretion as to whether a vote is needed, and what kind of vote is needed (unanimous, majority) for a rules change to take place.\u160? Major rules changes that would have affected previous picks/moves/trades (such as scoring) will only be implemented with unanimous approval.\u160? Other major rules changes (such as IDP expansion) will usually not go into effect for at least a year after they are specified, to allow time for research or adjusting strategy.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Replacement Owners:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab If an owner wants to quit the league, ownership of his team will be transferred to a replacement owner during the Offseason phase if possible.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab An owner may be forced to quit the league at the commissioner\u8217's discretion; this would only be in extreme cases of repeated collusive trading, inactivity, or other actions that severely disrupt the competitive balance of the league.\u160? In this case, a replacement owner would be found for his team.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Replacement owners will preferably come from friends of owners in the league.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Yearly Timeline:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Approximate yearly timeline is below.\u160? Exact dates for each year will be specified before each season.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab early September (NFL Week 1):\u160? First week of the CDF regular season, and start of In-Season Free Agency, with all teams receiving 20 FA$.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab late November (NFL Week 13):\u160? Last week of the CDF regular season, playoff teams and seeding determined.\u160? Trade deadline prior to roster lock for CDF Playoffs.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab early-mid December (NFL Weeks 14-16): CDF Playoffs, with the Week 16 CDF Super Bowl.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab early February: Rookie lottery to determine rookie draft order.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab February: Rules discussion, with any rules changes for the upcoming season finalized.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab early March: Offseason begins, with roster cuts to 30 and RFA/UFA designations for all teams.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab late March-mid April: Offseason Free Agency begins, with 4 weeks of free agent auctions.\u160? Roster limits expand to 46 players.\u160? All teams receive 30 FA$.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab late April: NFL Draft\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab May-early June: CDF Rookie Draft\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab late July-late August: Preseason begins, with Preseason free agent auctions.\u160? All teams receive 20 FA$.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab late August: Preseason concludes.\u160? Roster cuts to 40 players for all teams.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rules Change Log:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 2010 offseason\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab FA dollar allotments changed to $20 before preseason, $20 before season, and $30 before offseason, starting 2010 preseason.\u160? 2010 offseason allotment remains at $50.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 2010 offseason: Added new bidding rule for $2 minimum increments, starting at $5.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 2012 offseason\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Removed red lettering to indicate rules changes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Add all 2011 IDP expansion rules changes into main rules doc\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Create rules archive section for 2009 inaugural draft and 2011 IDP expansion\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Position designations \u8211- based on league hosting site (Yahoo/MFL)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Add 5 pts for 50+ yard field goals\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Add some wording for players picked in NFL Supplemental Draft in July \u8211- treated as regular free agents, and can be added in preseason free agency\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Dropped players cannot be picked up until next week\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Bidding for each week opens after Sunday games kick off\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Add wording about FA$ being tied up while RFA process is ongoing\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rules archive:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Below rules sections are for rules that were needed at some point in the history of CDF but are not currently used.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Inaugural Season (2009):}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The Inaugural Season will be in 2009.\u160? The Inaugural Season will follow different rules than subsequent seasons, outlined below.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab There will be an Inaugural Draft of 24 rounds, where all NFL players (non-amateur) are eligible to be drafted, including rookies.\u160? The draft will be a serpentine (first-to-last, last-to-first) format.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The Inaugural Draft will take place from early-mid July 2009 to early August 2009, and take place over email (Google Group).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Draft order will be determined by a random draw before the draft.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Picks may be traded, as well as picks for the 2010 rookie draft, but not for the 2011 rookie draft.\u160? Since no teams will have FA$ yet, the only assets that may be traded during the draft are players and picks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The in-season 24 man roster limit will be in effect.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Each owner will have 12 hours to make his selection.\u160? If it is unlikely that you will be able to make your selection during this timeframe, please send a proxy pick (your top several selections) to one of the owners coming up after your pick (of course, verify that they will probably be around when your pick comes up).\u160? Send the proxy pick in an attached word document so that it doesn\u8217't show up in an email preview.\u160? An alternative is having one of the other owners call you when your pick is up.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab If a pick is not made within the 12 hour deadline, the pick will be forfeited, and cannot be made after the next owner has picked.\u160? This rule will be exercised at the commissioner\u8217's discretion; early round picks especially will not be passed unless there is a long delay and no response from multiple attempts to contact an owner.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab There will be no Preseason Free Agency phase.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab In-Season Free Agency will occur as usual, with all owners receiving 25 FA$ at the beginning of the NFL season, and another 25 FA dollars after week 6.\u160? Free agents may be bid on starting the week prior to NFL Week 1.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The two divisions will be randomly seeded.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b 2011 IDP Expansion:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab As agreed upon during the 2010 offseason, rosters will expand during the 2011 offseason to accommodate Individual Defensive Players (IDP) during the 2011 season.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Rules and changes for the IDP expansion are detailed in this section.\u160? All rules sections affected by the IDP expansion will be updated during the 2011 offseason.\u160? In the event of a 2011 NFL lockout, where there is no NFL season or mostly replacement players are used, IDP expansion will be delayed to 2012..\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 8 IDP starters will be added: 2 DL (DT/DE), 3 LB (OLB/MLB), 2 DB (CB/S), 1 DL/D.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab IDP scoring system: 1 pt/solo tackle, .5 pt/assisted tackle, 3 pts/sack (half sacks are credited 1.5 pts), 1 pt/pass defensed, 3 pts/forced fumble, 3 pts/fumble recovery, 4 pts/interception, 2 pts/blocked kick (FG/XP) or punt, 2 pts/safety, 6 pts/touchdown, all IDPs will be eligible for any offensive/return stats also (if Yahoo allows.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Team Defense will be kept and continue to be a starting position. -Roster limits change from 24 in-season/18 before offseason free agency/30 during offseason and preseason, to 40 in-season/30 before offseason free agency/46 during offseason and preseason.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Because there are 10 offseason cuts now, free agency designations are now 2 RFA and 8 UFA (10 total).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Rookie draft expands to 6 rounds.\u160? IDP players may be drafted in the rookie draft.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Initial IDP draft will be during the 2011 offseason, after 2011 offseason free agency and before the 2011 CDF rookie draft.\u160? All non-rookie IDP players will be eligible for the IDP draft, and only IDPs may be drafted.\u160? The IDP draft will be a 14 round serpentine draft, with order randomly determined.\u160? Picks in the IDP draft may be traded before and during the draft.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab IDPs may be acquired via free agency and traded as usual, after the start of the initial IDP draft.\u160? There are no restrictions as to how few or how many IDPs you have on your roster.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab FA$ allotment and bidding rules will remain the same.\sa180\par}
}
